Ultrasound.
NOTE CONF
What I like you were found dead for us.
Oh No, because I think so like OK, good afternoon
NOTE CONF
join.
Uh Let's see today, we're going to continue talking about
NOTE CONF
some of these discrete distributions, right?
Uh So we went through some background information, some important
NOTE CONF
definitions the last time um things like defining a random
variable.
NOTE CONF
Now you mentioned that variable so that you don't break
up.
NOTE CONF
Uh It's a discrete versus continuous.
Remember our definition of a random variable is a function
NOTE CONF
that assigned to numerical values to each uh outcome of
the experiment.
NOTE CONF
And then we just went through a few examples and
the first sort of name discrete distribution uh that we'll
NOTE CONF
look at is called the binomial distribution.
So we'll look at a few of those.
NOTE CONF
Let's sort of start with that.
I wanna show you how to find probabilities using R.
NOTE CONF
So we'll do that today and probably get through most
of these distributions in the chapter before I do.
NOTE CONF
I don't have any questions.
I everything going well.
NOTE CONF
So it's T A si think are slowly correcting homework.
So I don't know if they've got too much done,
NOTE CONF
but um I did post the next homework though.
Not due until I think it, it's February 18th, not
NOTE CONF
this Sunday, but the Sunday happened.
So, so that's up there.
NOTE CONF
Um, you can probably do some of those already.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So we've got that cooking first test.
February 20th, which is how many weeks from today?
NOTE CONF
Three weeks.
I, uh, yes, three weeks.
NOTE CONF
Sometimes its not that far away.
I will post some practice tests as we get a
NOTE CONF
little bit closer.
OK?
NOTE CONF
So let's talk of the binomial distribution binomial.
Really?
NOTE CONF
It has two parameters.
OK?
NOTE CONF
And um and it is your number of independent trials
and he is the probability of a success on each
NOTE CONF
trial and that stays constant, right?
That, that's an important thing to realize it sort of
NOTE CONF
stays constant.
And one of the implications of that when you have
NOTE CONF
sort of a binomial distribution, you wanna think of it
as a case where uh you have replacement in the
NOTE CONF
sense that you pick an item, then you're gonna sort
of record it and put it back.
NOTE CONF
You're not changing the probability of a success from one
job to another.
NOTE CONF
OK?
Your random variable X is the number of successes in,
NOTE CONF
in trials.
So you might see this notation in certain variations of
NOTE CONF
it, you know, interpret this, that X is binomial um
where the end trials and the probability of the success
NOTE CONF
is peak.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So, so a lot of books have a notation, something
like that and even software would be something like that.
NOTE CONF
So I mentioned some of these examples and let's see.
Um So, so a couple of the conditions, you know,
NOTE CONF
the experiment consists of and repeated for new trials.
Um I mentioned this one here, probability of success, it
NOTE CONF
says is the same, the trials have to be independent
from each other.
NOTE CONF
OK.
And then we have this probability mass function.
NOTE CONF
Um the probability of, let's say, you know, uh X
being equal to some value.
NOTE CONF
So we might say in here a lot of times
you'll see notation like this, the probability that your random
NOTE CONF
variable X is equal to some value X.
That's how you wanna interpret that.
NOTE CONF
Um You mind N choose X key to the X
times one minus P to the N minus X.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So that's the probability mass function.
NOTE CONF
I think we did this example.
There are a couple of examples.
NOTE CONF
I don't think we did this one.
So let's start with this one here today.
NOTE CONF
Uh This tells us X is a binomial, N is
five and P is point two.
NOTE CONF
Use the PM F to find your answers.
Uh For these, that will be here.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So if we want the probability that X is equal
NOTE CONF
to one, let's set that up.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Uh So probability N is equal to 12, probably X
is equal to one.
NOTE CONF
And so we could just straight down the parameters, N
is five, P is equal to zero.
NOTE CONF
Point two.
So this would be 521 times point 2.2 to the
NOTE CONF
X and then it's one minus P.
So in that case, it would be 0.8 to the
NOTE CONF
fourth power.
OK?
NOTE CONF
So let's see.
So this would be five, choose one is easy with
NOTE CONF
five, choose one.
That's the spot, right?
NOTE CONF
Then you can choose one, it just like the top
number.
NOTE CONF
So that would be five times uh 1.2 to the
first power just right?
NOTE CONF
Like that 1.8 to the fourth power.
0.8 to the fourth pound.
NOTE CONF
This is, this is where it's, it's a real good
idea to bring your calculators to classes.
NOTE CONF
So now you have zero, 044096.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Good.
And then what do you get when you multiply those
NOTE CONF
three numbers?
See, I think it's just this number, it's five times
NOTE CONF
point two is one.
So, so this is zero point 40, no, Citrus.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So that's finding the probability X is one.
NOTE CONF
Now, if we wanted the probability X is less than
three.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So here, well, you have to keep in mind that
NOTE CONF
X is the street.
So if it's less than three, that means it could
NOTE CONF
be two, could be one, could be zero.
So, so here we wanna think.
NOTE CONF
All right, so this is equal to the probability, let's
say X is zero.
NOTE CONF
What's the probability X 51?
The probability X there's two.
NOTE CONF
OK?
We did one of these up here.
NOTE CONF
Um The probability X is zero.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Well, that would be 520 and then we would have
the point two to the zero, let's say 0.8 percent
NOTE CONF
plus the probability X is one which I'm just going
to put in here.
NOTE CONF
Zero 0.4096 plus the probability X true.
So that would be five, choose two and we would
NOTE CONF
have 0.2 squares plus 0.8.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So uh CFI 152, zero, if a then choose zero,
A two zero is one, right?
NOTE CONF
We put it in the form you get one 0.2
to the zero is one.
NOTE CONF
So this is just point A yeah, plus 0.4096.
We work that one out and I choose two.
NOTE CONF
You know that one.
That's five shoes too.
NOTE CONF
That was where no, it comes up a lot.
Well, you had five times 4 to 3.
NOTE CONF
Factorial cancers.
And so it's five times 4/2 you get, and let's
NOTE CONF
say times 0.2 where she probably just work that 0.2
square is what?
NOTE CONF
One of four?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
0 45 right?
And point eight to the third tower.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
0.5 0.2 0.512.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Well, you can see we have a little bit of
NOTE CONF
number crunching to do with the calculator question yet.
We on the phone, it's one minus P So if
NOTE CONF
you go back to this formula that I showed you
a couple of minutes ago.
NOTE CONF
It and your X to the at and then one
minus P within my designs.
NOTE CONF
So this problem our, he was going to the one
minus 0.2 is the 0.8.
NOTE CONF
So the month you have to the bus so you
just had to fall.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Yeah, the probability X is less than three.
NOTE CONF
You're just adding all the cases for X.
So X could be, you know, 01 or two.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, probability mass function.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Or you can just bring it as a probability function,
but it, it will be different when we're doing continuous.
NOTE CONF
So, so one called a PDF and the other called
PM F, right?
NOTE CONF
So when we work these out and add everything up,
anybody have a number you should get, I have it
NOTE CONF
over here.
0.9521 0.9421.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So this is what you want to get through that.
NOTE CONF
This is the sort of thing we'll do on the
test.
NOTE CONF
They might have several case, not too many cases.
Uh But sometimes it's just, you know, this is, this
NOTE CONF
is what I call an exact probability uh where you
have equals here, you have to do a few cases.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Now, the mean for binomial, I know you said this,
NOTE CONF
uh hang it up to here.
It said somewhere up here.
NOTE CONF
If not, I'll just, I'm just gonna point I don't
need it.
NOTE CONF
So the need for Bonal has this nice simple formula
U is equal to NP.
NOTE CONF
Um So, so if we want to mean it's N
times P and in this case N is five and
NOTE CONF
he is point two, so the me would be one.
OK.
NOTE CONF
It's just, you know, the idea is if, if this
was an experiment and you repeated it over and over
NOTE CONF
and over again, your average X value would be one.
Now the standard deviation you will get the first, let's
NOTE CONF
say we very, the variance is N and P and
one mine is OK.
NOTE CONF
So now we can put in, we get five, he
is 0.2 and one minus P would be point eight.
NOTE CONF
And we know that five and 42 is the one.
So this just gives us, but that's the variance.
NOTE CONF
The standard deviation is the square root of that.
And remember when you take the square root of a
NOTE CONF
number between zero and one, the number actually gets larger,
right?
NOTE CONF
So this is about point nine 0.894.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So it's zero and 89.
So where's your skin?
NOTE CONF
OK.
So that's, that, that's a basic uh binomial problem.
NOTE CONF
Most of the things that come up from there, what
I want to show you next, let's, this just sort
NOTE CONF
of justifies that you get um a probability distribution to
add up all these things.
NOTE CONF
But down here is what I want to look at,
um, when you have numbers where end is large, let's
NOTE CONF
say greater than 10.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Uh, 1520 50 100.
Um, it, it could be very large.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
We would use some sort of software to find it.
NOTE CONF
So I'll, I'll try to focus on our.
Ok, because that's what your book tries to do a
NOTE CONF
little bit.
So for a binomial distribution, if you wanted to calculate
NOTE CONF
certain probabilities, you would start out your, your code with
AD OK.
NOTE CONF
D is used when you want the exact probability.
So to use the language probability, if you wanted to
NOTE CONF
use sort of your PM F to use D, OK,
if you wanted to find something like the probability that
NOTE CONF
the X was, was less than three.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Here you would use the C DS, there would be
a few in practical only you were only going sort
NOTE CONF
of up to two.
OK?
NOTE CONF
So let's take a look at an example using R
OK.
NOTE CONF
Here's what we, we'll look at a couple.
Um So, so this one here, um let's say X
NOTE CONF
of binomial and N is 12, he is 0.3.
So, so put that over here, the X say X,
NOTE CONF
you find it on me, let's say 10 is 12
and P you said here is 0.3 zero point if
NOTE CONF
I wanted to fall probability that X is less than,
or equal to seven, right?
NOTE CONF
So if you were doing this, let's say, you know,
pencil or paper pencil on a calculator.
NOTE CONF
You would have to look at the cases where it's
012345, 67.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
Work them out with the form.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
So that, that's a little long p, it's doable but
NOTE CONF
it's long and T, yeah, let's say we have a
technology.
NOTE CONF
Um, we'll do it with R but a lot of
the other technologies work the same way.
NOTE CONF
So it might have no sort of calculators do probabilities
with the distributions or, or Excel.
NOTE CONF
OK.
That works also.
NOTE CONF
But I, I'll show you with R, let me clean
up this mess, take the broom out and sweep.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So what I would do here is, first of all,
NOTE CONF
you have to think is this exact or is it
cumulative, exact is when you have an equal sign, cumulative
NOTE CONF
is when you have a less than an equal two?
OK.
NOTE CONF
So it's cumulative.
Remember this thing I just told you, yeah, you have
NOTE CONF
to start out with P when it's cumulative.
OK?
NOTE CONF
And this is true for all, all the discrete probabilities,
OK?
NOTE CONF
This little um D versus P works, you know, in
R.
NOTE CONF
So I would put P I know now we are,
it's just PB and sort of prompts you a little
NOTE CONF
bit.
Um So, so typically, you know, well, art puts it
NOTE CONF
in a Q there.
Um This first value is, is what most software we
NOTE CONF
call you on the X value.
The first thing you put in here would be the
NOTE CONF
set.
So I put in seven the size, well, that, that's
NOTE CONF
n that would be 12.
Um, and then the probability, that's the probability of success
NOTE CONF
that would be 0.3.
And that's all we really need.
NOTE CONF
We don't need those other items.
Um, so let's see, let's not put my count here
NOTE CONF
and then we hit.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
And you get more probability 0.9905.
So, so what did we do?
NOTE CONF
Let's see, we'll write the number here.
We have 0.9905.
NOTE CONF
We use the I 712.
You uh point ok.
NOTE CONF
Questions about that.
Yeah, let's say we wanted an exact probability.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So you could see that here in, in part two,
NOTE CONF
we want probability uh X is equals.
So that would just be the, you know, the case
NOTE CONF
where uh you wanna find, you know, be at seven.
Now, that would be a fair test question, right?
NOTE CONF
You know, less than, or equal to on, on a
test.
NOTE CONF
Like I said, you have to do, you know the
eight cases which it's not that it's that hard, it's
NOTE CONF
just, you know, long and t, so here we have
three cases that's sort of long enough.
NOTE CONF
OK.
But um, but if you need to know this and
NOTE CONF
you wanted to use R, now we would start with
D so D vinyl and then these inputs are exactly
NOTE CONF
the same seven 12 and 0.3 and then we get
it.
NOTE CONF
Uh You see, we got 0.029 uh one, let's say,
OK, so here you d why?
NOTE CONF
So?
Well, ok, now let's take a look at another minor
NOTE CONF
wrinkle.
Um let's say we wanted something like this number greater
NOTE CONF
than people a pro, right?
So, ok, greater than are equal to self.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
So, so what you need to at least think of,
NOTE CONF
I'll write it out.
But this, this would be the sum of the probability
NOTE CONF
of seven, 89, 1011 and 12.
Me, it can't be more than 12, right?
NOTE CONF
If you're looking for the, you know, the probability of
seven or more successes in 12 tries.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So seven or more.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So you wanna include the K seven and you wanna
NOTE CONF
go 7897, that's if you were sort of doing it
out by hand, you would, you know, include all those
NOTE CONF
cases if we have a technology to use like our
and all, like I said, all of these, you know,
NOTE CONF
calculators and software enrollments actually are all the same.
Um You have to use the top of it here
NOTE CONF
and use the CD F.
So, so this would be one minus and have to
NOTE CONF
be careful X less than equal to six.
Well, it would be strictly less than seven or less
NOTE CONF
than equal to six.
The discreetness plays an important role, right?
NOTE CONF
So, um, all right.
So now, right, so if we were doing this.
NOTE CONF
Well, you all right, let me show it to you
first and I'll write it out there.
NOTE CONF
You would have to do one minus.
Now, do I need an E or A P?
NOTE CONF
You?
Pee?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, because I want the Q uh so one LP
and then it's final and we said six 12 and
NOTE CONF
we still point so we get 0.0386 zero.
So, so here the code would be one minus mm
NOTE CONF
final six 01.
Now, if you're doing homework and I ask you to
NOTE CONF
use R to do a probability um and I say,
you know, copy and paste the code, I mean, this,
NOTE CONF
this is sort of what I want to do.
So, so you could just, you know, in R you
NOTE CONF
could just go here and copy or, you know, highlight
those two things, the mouse, you could hit copy and
NOTE CONF
then you could, you know, paste it um in your,
your word document, I just put it in a like
NOTE CONF
slide here and I hit pace.
Sometimes you gotta, you can sort of see it here.
NOTE CONF
I don't know why it, when you paste it, it
comes across being so small but you just have to,
NOTE CONF
he said that it on me.
OK?
NOTE CONF
Um And then, you know, if you had something like
this, it's one other case I have, it's, it's a
NOTE CONF
good one to look at, find the probability with X
is between four and seven, right?
NOTE CONF
So that one you want to first think?
All right, I think the case is 45 67.
NOTE CONF
Not that you had to do it out but, but
if we're doing this with, with art, what you wanna
NOTE CONF
do is take everything up to seven.
So that would be something like this BB 712, 0.3
NOTE CONF
and then get rid of the cases from 0 to
3, right?
NOTE CONF
Because you want to be left with 4567.
So minus, hey, well, I know six.
NOTE CONF
No, not six.
Great.
NOTE CONF
OK.
And you can see if we can work that out.
NOTE CONF
We should get the number up here there.
Um Yeah.
NOTE CONF
OK.
And we get it all makes sense good.
NOTE CONF
Um OK.
So let's see.
NOTE CONF
Well, we'll do another one in our uh in a
little while.
NOTE CONF
Uh let's say here we have just the, the definition
here.
NOTE CONF
I mean, I've showed you once but here it is
again, uh you know, the mean and variance for a
NOTE CONF
binomial distribution.
So, so the mean, we call it sometimes the X,
NOTE CONF
sometimes U is N times P and the variance is
anti P one minus P.
NOTE CONF
So let's say we have something like this.
It says a, a coin is weighted so that the
NOTE CONF
probability of heads is 0.55 hes to 0.45.
The experiment consists of look at the corn two 100
NOTE CONF
times when X be the number of heads that occurs.
What's the average number of heads for that experiment?
NOTE CONF
Right?
So firstly, you should realize, I mean, you know, it's
NOTE CONF
here because it's in the context, but that would be
a binomial experiment, right?
NOTE CONF
Because you flipping a coin and you have two outcomes,
head heads and tails.
NOTE CONF
Um And then you have the dependence.
So the average number of heads would be what again,
NOTE CONF
imagine you're repeating this experiment, you know, over and over
again.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, 100 and 10 left.
Anybody see that.
NOTE CONF
How did you get it?
Um I did 0.55 times 200.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, that's right.
Yeah, you did N times BN is 200 is point
NOTE CONF
55.
So a 110 and that should make sense.
NOTE CONF
This is, this is one of those formulas that it's
easy to just, you know, figure out with, with or
NOTE CONF
without the formula.
Um What's the variant?
NOTE CONF
OK.
So, so the variance for this um everybody should be
NOTE CONF
able to figure that out of the variance is N
times P times one minus P, right?
NOTE CONF
So you take them the various and it was 200
P is 0.551 MP would be 0.45.
NOTE CONF
We don't when we multiply those two, I get 100
and 10.
NOTE CONF
Is this 100 and 10 5.45.
What do we get from that back?
NOTE CONF
Where you at?
So switch to all those formulas and again, this is
NOTE CONF
the form distribution for, you know, a few reasons that
there's a lot of discrete situations that get modeled with
NOTE CONF
the binomial.
But also just from, you know, the course perspective, this
NOTE CONF
comes up again in like chapters six, chapter seven, chapter
eight, it comes up over and over and over again.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So, and, and these formulas come up uh especially so,
NOTE CONF
so those are good to know.
All right, let's see here.
NOTE CONF
No, wanna do that one.
I will skip that one because I have a bunch
NOTE CONF
of these that we'll look at.
But um histograms for the binomial, if you were to
NOTE CONF
make some sort of histogram or bar charts, then you
might, you know, notice a couple of things.
NOTE CONF
I mean, consider the case when N is 15, if
P is, let's say small about 0.2.
NOTE CONF
OK.
And you made a chart of the probabilities that you
NOTE CONF
get at different values.
OK?
NOTE CONF
You get something that looks like this.
All right.
NOTE CONF
What can we say about this distribution?
Let's see, somewhat skewed, not skewed, right?
NOTE CONF
If he is, you know, on the large side 0.8.
So the skew the other way, let's skew.
NOTE CONF
But if he is sort of in the middle there
at point five, you get something that's almost vell shaped.
NOTE CONF
OK?
And that's important.
NOTE CONF
OK?
Because what a lot of folks used to do before
NOTE CONF
they had the technology, you know, anywhere to turn, um
whenever you have large values for end uh you could
NOTE CONF
find a binomial probability using a normal distribution called the
normal approximation to the binomial.
NOTE CONF
We're gonna do this, but not until we do the
normal distribution.
NOTE CONF
But here you could sort of see why it would
work because it's very close to being bell shaped.
NOTE CONF
Um All right, let's check out.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Um, we have one, yeah, this is a 51, 5%
of Americans are afraid of being alone at night, right?
NOTE CONF
If a random sample of 18 Americans is selected on
the following probabilities, hey, there's exactly one in the sample.
NOTE CONF
I'm afraid to be alone and B there's a low
at uh at most two.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So for one, actually, I I don't have the complete
NOTE CONF
solution.
Let's see if you can work it out.
NOTE CONF
Try to get me the number.
Um What's the probability that we get?
NOTE CONF
Exactly one?
Yeah, we got 10 is 18.
NOTE CONF
Do they have a number?
What did you get it again?
NOTE CONF
Seven 01.
Mhm Let me ask you that you're pointing 55.
NOTE CONF
So, so we definitely need to do it right?
Oh, ok.
NOTE CONF
So we set it up and choose X would be
18, choose one that I have P to the X
NOTE CONF
power, which is one and then one minus P 2.95
to the NYX 5072.
NOTE CONF
And so these, these powers have to add up to
X.
NOTE CONF
So this will just be 18.
This will be point 05 and that's gonna be 0.95
NOTE CONF
to the 16, that calculator.
Um, let's see, I gotta check it out using R.
NOTE CONF
Ok, so we would have, now, is that exact or
is it cumulative exact?
NOTE CONF
So, d what's going on?
Ee uh b then we want one that's our X
NOTE CONF
18 and 0.05 13763.
Uh So I'm not sure what went wrong here again.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
yeah.
NOTE CONF
Again um this 18 it's gonna be point 05.
This is going to be, I don't know, 0.95 to
NOTE CONF
the 17th is tough but we do get 0.37 63.
Ok?
NOTE CONF
And then the second case and of the 18th um
one of the chances that it's at most two, most
NOTE CONF
two people crave to be alone at night.
So you have to look at three cases here.
NOTE CONF
X equals zero, X equals one and X equals so
just rate it like this, the probability of zero, it's
NOTE CONF
the probability of one.
What's the probability of?
NOTE CONF
So tell me what she did from that and they
were using the formula for now.
NOTE CONF
Uh you checking with the heart but I want you
to practice if you using the for me because like
NOTE CONF
I said, that's, that's what we be on the test,
how we do it now.
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah, zero points 941 uh 0.19441.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Just one right?
9419 or 90.9 41.
NOTE CONF
No good.
Anybody else is that you got that too?
NOTE CONF
Ok.
Um so let's see if you figure out each of
NOTE CONF
these.
Do you still have it?
NOTE CONF
Probably zero?
Is what?
NOTE CONF
Oh yeah um I 520.
Ok so uh 520 is just one can choose zero
NOTE CONF
is one but, but I mean the reason why it's
one is use the definitions there would be five factorial,
NOTE CONF
it would be zero.
Factorial five factorial.
NOTE CONF
What the form?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I mean the formula looks like this you 10
to, let's see.
NOTE CONF
Yes, in factorial or ex factorial.
Um and mine is what P is zero.
NOTE CONF
Um Thanks when he was, we did that 13763 and
D of two.
NOTE CONF
OK.
1681 grapes.
NOTE CONF
All right.
And then add them all up and good, good.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Um One more this one that will do with R.
NOTE CONF
So let's say this is the final move now and
it's 58.47.
NOTE CONF
Find the following using on.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So we want the first one we want is probability
X is equal to 35.
NOTE CONF
So that would be an exact probability.
I'm gonna clean that up.
NOTE CONF
So this would be E by home X is 35
and it's 50 and E was 0.47.
NOTE CONF
So you can see we got 0.0005 and a bunch
of decimals I think.
NOTE CONF
I do have this on the next slide.
Uh Yeah, just like thank you.
NOTE CONF
Now, what if we want the probability X less than
35?
NOTE CONF
OK.
So you can see here.
NOTE CONF
So here you want things cumulative.
OK?
NOTE CONF
But your X value she should be 34 right?
Because you don't wanna include 35.
NOTE CONF
So you go up to 34 you know, I have
it right over here.
NOTE CONF
And so if you put it in, you can see
you get point 999151, right?
NOTE CONF
And then if we wanted the probability that is greater
than, or equal to 37 OK.
NOTE CONF
So, or a state you have to use the compliment.
So that would be one less the probability X is
NOTE CONF
less than equal to 30 six.
All right, that's where students make a mistake is, is
NOTE CONF
that, you know, you should use the 36 here uh
just like this and it is cumulative and you get
NOTE CONF
this very small one.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So there, there's a lot of good applications for your
B I mean, it's, but it all comes down to
NOTE CONF
doing these basic calculations.
Uh All right.
NOTE CONF
So let's go on and what's distribution we're gonna look
at is called the hypergeometric.
NOTE CONF
And here's just an example, I'll give you the, the
formal description in a minute, but it's always nice to
NOTE CONF
do an example first.
Um Let's say we have a lot by that.
NOTE CONF
I mean, you know, like a batch, a batch of
100 light bulbs.
NOTE CONF
And you know that one of your defectives find the
probability that among a randomly selected sample of 10 you
NOTE CONF
are effective.
And here, now I'm gonna say, using basic understanding of
NOTE CONF
probability.
So this is the sort of thing that happens with
NOTE CONF
quality inspections.
Why quality inspections are, aren't important.
NOTE CONF
I don't know if you watch the news, but Boeing
is getting in big trouble these days because they don't
NOTE CONF
have good quality control.
And then I just, you know, a part fell off
NOTE CONF
of one of the planes because it wasn't bolted down
properly and they're blaming everything on it.
NOTE CONF
The quality control people at Boeing anyway.
So here what we can do now, now what makes
NOTE CONF
us a little different and, you know, I don't come
out and say to you, but you don't have replacements.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
So, so what you have to think of is that,
NOTE CONF
um, there's 20 defects and we want to know sort
of the probability of, of getting two.
NOTE CONF
So, so the number of ways to get two feedbacks
is 22 2, but we'll take a sample of size
NOTE CONF
10.
So that means I need eight non deff effects.
NOTE CONF
So the number of ways to get eight non defects
is 80 to 8 and the number of ways to
NOTE CONF
pick a sample size 10 is 100 cheese 10.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So we could, you know, work all of these out.
Um, and we get 0.318.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So, so that's the probability that when you take some
NOTE CONF
sample, think of this as some random sample out of
the box, right?
NOTE CONF
Imagine you're starting out and you have a box of
100 let's say, and you're gonna take a random sample
NOTE CONF
of 10, this is the probability that two out of
those 10 are defective.
NOTE CONF
OK.
Um So now you could use this using a probability
NOTE CONF
function.
I'll show you the probability function.
NOTE CONF
So uh so let's take a look at what happens
here in the general said uh is called the hypergeometric
NOTE CONF
distribution or sometimes referred to as sampling without replacement.
So the idea is if you have a finite population
NOTE CONF
with an individuals and your sampling with no replacement, the
items can be classified as success or failure.
NOTE CONF
And there's capital a successes in the population, you've taken
a sample of size N, you know, that's the lower
NOTE CONF
case N, right, lower case N is always sample size.
Capital N is the population size.
NOTE CONF
Then the probability that you have, let's say X, successes
in A two X on N MS A two nm
NOTE CONF
X over capital N choose lower case A.
So you could say that's, that's what we call the,
NOTE CONF
the Pff.
Um And I don't know if you really needed, I
NOTE CONF
mean, I think if it's hypergeometric, I find, you know,
all those letters to be a bit of a, of
NOTE CONF
a nuisance and you know, you just, you know, think
along those lines there so that, you know, you have
NOTE CONF
to pick, you're picking subsets, you have a certain number
of defectives.
NOTE CONF
Um And then you have, you know, non defectives.
That's typically what these problems uh look like.
NOTE CONF
All right.
But there is one thing here, let's see if that
NOTE CONF
comes up, I guess I have it on another slide.
It's good to know these formulas as well, especially the,
NOTE CONF
the E of X, right, the, the, the expected value
or the, the average uh number of, of successes is
NOTE CONF
N times A over the population size.
OK.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So now let's just go back and take a look
NOTE CONF
at some more examples.
Let's say a, a shipping of 20 five cell phones
NOTE CONF
contains five that are defective.
If 12 of them are randomly chosen without replacement, what's
NOTE CONF
the probability that two of the 12 will be effective?
So if we put it in the context of this
NOTE CONF
formula that I just showed you we're interested in, in
the probability, our random variable X is equal to two,
NOTE CONF
the subset that we're choosing a size 12.
OK.
NOTE CONF
We know that, hey, think of this, this is the
number of, of defects in the population.
NOTE CONF
OK?
It is five and the population is size 25.
NOTE CONF
So you get five, choose two, 22 10, divided by
25 to 12.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So you can work these out.
NOTE CONF
And surprisingly, even though these numbers get fairly large.
Uh, it works out to be reasonable.
NOTE CONF
Probability.
Point 355.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Let me have.
Sure I work here.
NOTE CONF
Well, this is the last one, let's say.
Um, how about you?
NOTE CONF
Suppose the 20 the company has 20 identical card chargers
for cell phones on hand.
NOTE CONF
But fiber defectives, the company randomly selects 10.
What's the probability that?
NOTE CONF
Well, A is two of the 10 will be defective.
B, what's the probability at most?
NOTE CONF
Two of the 10 will be defective.
Let's do that.
NOTE CONF
Let's try to do part dr probably you can at
most two 10.
NOTE CONF
That will be the second question.
Do we get a cheap sheet for exams?
NOTE CONF
Yep.
I was the foremost that's just gone.
NOTE CONF
You gonna have to have an in, I'm gonna stop.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So nine point nine or yeah, times 10 N which
is just 3.000994.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Yes, sir.
NOTE CONF
Um, anybody else got an answer?
That's pretty small.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, 0.3 0.3 0.3 40.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Well, let's, let's see if we can work this out.
Probability.
NOTE CONF
Um, we wanna find the probability that there's at most
2 to 10 uh affected.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
So it's an at most question.
NOTE CONF
So we wanna break that down into the case case
where you have zero defects, one defect and two defects.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so the case with, with zero defects, we, we
know in the population that's five but this would just
NOTE CONF
be 52, zero.
And then if there's five defects, that means there's 15,
NOTE CONF
that are not defects.
So, then this would be 15 to 10 divided by
NOTE CONF
22 7.
And then, uh, the case where we're interested in the
NOTE CONF
probability of one defect that would be 521, 5, 15
to 9 over the same denominator 2210.
NOTE CONF
And then five tubes too.
I was 15.
NOTE CONF
She, Ok.
One.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So now, um, I don't know, does anybody have these
NOTE CONF
broken down?
Is it one by one this see a few different
NOTE CONF
ways we can go back to this.
What I would do here is at first it depends.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Well, I think we have a common denominator.
NOTE CONF
The denominator is 2210.
Um, so you could work that out if you want
NOTE CONF
to figure out what number that is.
Uh, a lot of calculators would go through that.
NOTE CONF
So let's see if we just think in terms of
calculate, let's see if this is gonna work for you.
NOTE CONF
All right.
Excel does a lot of these calculations.
NOTE CONF
So if you wanted, let's say 2210.
Well, like cell calls, this comin sort of a combinatorial.
NOTE CONF
I been 20.
So let's say if you wanted that.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Uh One 84 7 50 six, you should have seen
NOTE CONF
that somewhere.
So 184756.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
Yeah, five 20 plus one.
NOTE CONF
So I need 15 shoes.
10 so I could eat well, same thing.
NOTE CONF
Comin 15 comma hands some of the stay somewhere.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Um, be a 15 to 10.
3003.
NOTE CONF
I, that would be the first one.
Now the second one, if I choose one it's gonna
NOTE CONF
be five.
So let's get your ass 15 to 9.
NOTE CONF
So that's 15 shoes.
Nine, 5000 five.
NOTE CONF
But I have to multiply that by five, the people's
five times this, so that becomes 25 05.
NOTE CONF
And then this last one when I said five choose
two for whatever reason it comes up a lot, it's
NOTE CONF
worth remembering that that's equal to 10.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So we did a five choose 4/2.
Um So let me figure out 15 choose eight.
NOTE CONF
So that's 6430 five and then multiplying by 10 just
puts a zero line to 6435.
NOTE CONF
So if you add them all up divided by 1
84 7 56 did you get this number?
NOTE CONF
You get 0.5?
Let's see.
NOTE CONF
Do I have the number in my notes?
I think they were not sure as I do.
NOTE CONF
Uh Well, here I said I got 2 500.6988.
Uh But then right, that's using r anybody have my
NOTE CONF
number here.
I look, let's, what's that?
NOTE CONF
Ok.
So let's, let's go ahead and add it up and
NOTE CONF
see if we have it.
Um So I'm going to add some 3003 for us.
NOTE CONF
25 025 for us.
64 350.
NOTE CONF
Close the parenthesis divide by 1 84 756 0.5 CC.
Say to get exactly 0.5.
NOTE CONF
But ok, so it looks like we need to correct
this.
NOTE CONF
Uh Yeah, I'm not sure.
Acid.
NOTE CONF
Yeah there there's something wrong here.
I'm gonna have to fix that but all right.
NOTE CONF
So let's go with I'll go with this.
This is an answer here.
NOTE CONF
Um Any questions about that?
Ok.
NOTE CONF
So I wanna um introduce the pla on distribution.
Um So I would say next to the binomial, this
NOTE CONF
is probably the second most important discrete situation just in
terms of the number of times that I see it
NOTE CONF
being used in a lot of different applications.
I have seen the hypergeometric use in one case where
NOTE CONF
somebody's doing a lot of sampling.
They worked at the prime lab and I don't know
NOTE CONF
if I told you the story yet, but they used
to make these arrests and they would, you know, do
NOTE CONF
make these drug arrests that would come in and they
would get like 500 packets of a certain drug might
NOTE CONF
have been crack heroin and so on.
And in order to get the maximum sentence when, when
NOTE CONF
the person came up for trial, the, the lab, the
crime lab had to check every packet and they thought
NOTE CONF
that was a waste of their time because, you know,
doing 500 packets of the same thing.
NOTE CONF
So they wanted to do a lot of random sampling
and they were testing their sort of, you know, uh
NOTE CONF
ways of, of getting a sample and that's where they
had to use, you know, the Hypergeometric in a lot
NOTE CONF
of the work that they were, you know, doing.
So that's the only place I've seen it.
NOTE CONF
Um, and in a lot of, you know, statistical things
that I've read and done, I sort of once anyway,
NOTE CONF
the place you see a lot of different places.
So, so here are the conditions, let's say that the
NOTE CONF
probability that an event occurs in a certain interval is
often proportional to the length of the in B.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So, you know, by that, I mean, let's say, you
NOTE CONF
know, a certain event happens twice in a minute.
Well, then if this condition held, then it would happen
NOTE CONF
four times in two minutes.
And if it happens twice in one minute and it
NOTE CONF
happens four times in two minutes.
OK.
NOTE CONF
And so on, that's the sort of thing that we
mean here, two events cannot occur at exactly the same
NOTE CONF
time, the events occur independently.
OK.
NOTE CONF
But notice there's, there's no sort of upper bound here,
like with the binomial, you had end trials here here,
NOTE CONF
this could go on to infinity.
I, I mean, it never really does.
NOTE CONF
But in theory, it could.
So the probability of X events occurring in a time
NOTE CONF
period, T or a poison random variable with the parameter
Glanda is given by this function F of X is
NOTE CONF
equal to lambda, to the X, even the minus lambda
over X factor.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So, so it's interesting that this comes up.
NOTE CONF
So e you've probably seen before, right?
It's the base of the natural log function approximately a
NOTE CONF
two point 72 lambda is actually the average number of
occurrences.
NOTE CONF
So you can see here that E of X is
lambda.
NOTE CONF
And oddly enough, it's also the V of X.
So some examples of, you know, the Poisson distribution might
NOTE CONF
be um the number of hurricanes in Florida during a
certain year.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
Right.
NOTE CONF
There, there is no upper bound, but we know that
it doesn't get that high, you know, um the number
NOTE CONF
of arrivals, let's say at a toll booth or really
any place where there's a waiting line.
NOTE CONF
Ok.
The number of arrivals that you get follows a croissant
NOTE CONF
distribution, the number of hits of a website.
Ok, let's say in one minute, you know, the number
NOTE CONF
of hits of, I don't know what's your favorite website,
their website these days, right.
NOTE CONF
Space.
Yeah, it's a good one.
NOTE CONF
It's a good answer.
I don't know what else, what else, what else you
NOTE CONF
guys got going on tiktokers?
I uh I have tiktok, Instagram.
NOTE CONF
OK.
There you go.
NOTE CONF
OK.
Um Facebook is no longer popular.
NOTE CONF
Is it right?
I use Facebook anymore?
NOTE CONF
Um Messenger.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So just imagine you know, the number of hits, you
know, this website might get in a minute.
NOTE CONF
Uh It's important that, you know, it gets man as
well.
NOTE CONF
So, so if you're trying to study probabilities, this would
require a Poisson distribution.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So let's, let's check out this, this example here.
NOTE CONF
It says the average number of homes sold by the
Acme Realty Company, two homes per day.
NOTE CONF
What's the probability that three homes will get sold tomorrow?
I want to think of this as a croissant lambda
NOTE CONF
would be two because that's your average on a daily
basis.
NOTE CONF
X would be three.
So instead of having to do all that stuff that
NOTE CONF
we didn't check the two here, we just look at,
you know, two Q, this is our number for ee
NOTE CONF
to the minus 2/3 factorial, we could get our probability
um 0.180.
NOTE CONF
And then I would normally have, you know, what's the
probability that five houses are sold in the next two
NOTE CONF
days?
All right, let's just think about that.
NOTE CONF
What would your land to be?
Your lambda would be?
NOTE CONF
Not two because it sells on the average two a
day, right?
NOTE CONF
It was due up over here.
But now I have a question about the two day
NOTE CONF
period.
So you have to double lambda.
NOTE CONF
So now it's now the new Lambda for this was
before X would be five and we would put it
NOTE CONF
into our formula and we could work out the probability.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So, so lots of good, uh, applications of this.
We'll be going through these, uh, next time I'll sort
NOTE CONF
of start with this.
It is, uh, we show up, uh, on Monday and
NOTE CONF
then, and then we will start chapter four.
You ask me that first.
NOTE CONF
It has the three chapters, 12 and three.
But you gotta know, start working on that before, on
NOTE CONF
the course.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, you'll have to c this is for you.
Oh, ok.
NOTE CONF
I, I how, oh my God and ice cream that
yeah.
NOTE CONF
Point to, to the same address.
Don't try to go.
NOTE CONF
Where are you going?
I saw but it's not like honestly you have to
NOTE CONF
comment about.
No, you think I can answer this question today.
NOTE CONF
Pass that right?
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Remember what, like what's good?
Is it a good one?
NOTE CONF
Oh, this one not going to like try and see
how you honest to yourself and be like, oh, I,
NOTE CONF
and I think I'm going well when I got to
rar a position like I thought Wednesday, Australia.
NOTE CONF
Thank you one last time.
Where can we find the when?
NOTE CONF
No?
Well, but there are not there for the weekend at
NOTE CONF
all.
Ok.
NOTE CONF
Happy.
What home.
NOTE CONF
Ok.